there was one little thing I heard on
the radio when I was a kid that stayed
with me my whole life there's a
meteorologist on the radio who was being
asked a tough question and he said back
to the news broadcaster he said look
forecasting is an art and a science and
that's not what I'm doing here that's
not what I do on the radio he said what
I do is describe to you problems that
are already happening right now I give
you an analysis of events now as they're
unfolding and that's completely
different from forecasting that's
completely different from predicting how
much rain will there be in the next 12
months or in the next 6 years or you
know how how well is the wheat crop
gonna do I mean weather forecasting for
farming can be very very serious
business right he says no no what I'm
doing right now on this radio program
I'm telling you about a storm or I'm
telling you about a hurricane it's
happening right now we have satellite
images right now I'm giving you analysis
of reality as it unfolds right now
that's very very different it's
different from forecasting ok people ask
me all the time should they learn
Chinese two different people talking
about this today from the year 2020 to
the year 2040 if we're talking about the
immediate future in my lifetime in your
lifetime yes right now is the time to
learn Chinese as a language as never
before I got I got sympathy for other
languages I have interest in other
languages historical interest academic
interest scholarly interest there are
fascinating languages in India okay and
you know what maybe in the next 200
years India is also going to be of this
kind of immense political cultural and
economic importance but right now not
forecasting talking about the reality
right
now as it's unfolding right now the
opportunity is Chinese Chinese is the
language to learn whether you are in
California or New York City or Hong Kong
or Taiwan or Athens Greece wherever you
are in Europe or Africa or South America
right now Chinese is the language to
learn so I got Melissa on on the wire
here I got Melissa
on the phone and your perspective on
this a little bit different just because
you have to deal with a different kind
of skepticism in your life right which
so these same people like okay the
Chinese language is so iconic it's
instantly recognizable
don't you see Chinese don't you see the
writing on the wall as we say in English
don't you see it on neon signs in Los
Angeles in New York City in London
England on't you see it everywhere don't
you hear about China on the news every
night you have like keeping it really
show talking about ordinary people not
people who are specialists or scholars
or somebody don't they have some sense
of the enormous unique importance of
China in the world right now and in the
immediate future
but look I don't look I've got all the
sympathy in the world for Bangladesh I
got all the sympathy in the world for
the Tamils these are important language
I have all the sympathy in the world for
people who make the commitment to learn
a tiny language with a small number of
speakers like Irish you know Irish
Gaelic or creed or a Jib way those are
very very different kinds of commitments
to make it's a very very difficult
argument ask are you the right person to
commit to studying this language but I
mean right now 2020 a Chinese I really
feel the writing is on the wall it's
completely obvious you and I were in
Athens Greece together not we didn't
talk to that many people
but you remember I talked to the owner
of that bookstore and that guy just
didn't get it so this guy this guy owns
a bookstore he speaks good English
I could say like 10 words in Greek you
know my ability in Greek was almost zero
but I was studying before I went over
talking this guy in English and I'm
really trying to let him know look you
know you need to start carrying books
for people learning Chinese the Athens
the Piraeus harbour the famous ancient
harbour of Athens is now owned by the
Chinese this is the place where China
meets Europe this is where all of the
industry and all of the shipping and
they had just announced a whole long
list of new institutions to be built
this is where you know Chinese people
are gonna be learning Greek and Greek
people are gonna be learning Chinese as
never before and there are billions of
dollars involved and all kinds of
opportunities and guess what do a little
bit of math compare the total population
of Greece to the total population of
China the influence China has on Greece
is going to be so much bigger than the
influence Greece says in China and that
guy he just didn't get it I mean you
remember his reaction like
the rental properties has now grown to
become such a huge source of Chinese
immigrants right that most of the
property is owned by people of Chinese
descent right and it takes it takes less
than 1/2 of 1% of China to totally
transform Greece forever and that
partnership is very real ongoing and
it's it's exploding right now you know
not not just economically not just
politically but yes including
economically and politically so so
really briefly this phone call with my
girlfriend it's inspired by the fact
that I had a conversation with an old
friend the two of us have had for
several years and this old friend of
mine was at first asking me whether or
not he should learn Japanese and then
long story short I started talking about
Japanese French and several other
languages and asked him would why are
you considering learning another
language at all like what's motivating
you take on another language you know
and he gave me a complex answer that I
think is true of many people who are you
know like as grown adults thinking about
making a serious commitment to another
language that included you know wanting
to branch out intellectually wanting to
have a more fulfilling life emotionally
but yes you know there is a huge
component here which is just an economic
concern he's concerned about his own
employability in the future he's
concerned about how much of the map of
planet Earth he's really gonna have
access to for the rest of his life so
and so forth so there was there was a
big big fear of being economically
marginalized and wanting to learn a
language for that reason and you know I
just said it will look if this is what
we're talking about Chinese is the
language free to learn there is no
comparison of Japanese now babe sorry
I'm gonna keep talking for a minute but
babe I think you
you don't see this side of Western
culture there's this whole discourse
we're obsessed with with you know the
decline of the Roman Empire and like
when you use the word decline people
assume it means something it really
doesn't mean decline decline doesn't
mean that Rome completely burned down
and disappeared okay Rome is still there
um but Japan right now Japan right now
is in decline okay beautiful country
great place to go on vacation they have
democracy and freedom of speech high
quality of life good health care very
low crime rate a lot of great things to
say about Japan and none of those things
are true of China confidence China is
not a democracy don't have a low crime
rate you know okay a lot of guess what
Japan is in decline well maybe you're
planning to live forever
whoever you are watching this in the
audience maybe you're planning to live
another 100 years I'm worried about the
next 20 years I've got to live for today
I've got to live for now okay in the
next 20 years Japan is in decline and it
is going to continue to be in decline
the significance of the Japanese
language even within Japan and
internationally is going to continue to
decline speaking Japanese is not
important or useful in Paris London
Berlin Los Angeles or New York City it's
not and 20 years from now that trend is
going to continue
Japan will become less and less
significant okay a lot of wonderful
things about Japan but that is the truth
Japan is in decline there's no
comparison to Chinese Chinese is already
a tremendously important language in Los
Angeles London Paris Berlin New York
City right it already is and 20 years
from now it is only going to be more so
I have all kinds of sympathy for the
people of India and the politics of
India and the languages of India within
20 years that's that is not that is not
a prediction I can make and there is no
other language there
no other culture there is no other
political discourse that is in terms of
scale and depth is as can compete with
China
it can even be compared to Chinese as a
language I got I got love for France you
know I got love for French culture and
French people and you know I have my own
reasons to be motivated to learn French
in the next 20 years to talk about to
talk about learning French being
attached to some kind of opportunity the
opportunities attached to the French
language would be trivial just no
comparison compared to what learning
Chinese means now you ask yourself these
questions - okay you talk about the way
it's meaningful to you we talked about
the economic edge which well okay
something I said to him surprise me
slightly I surprised myself a little bit
I said to him look
when you're thinking about learning a
language you have to ask yourself a
little bit is this language interesting
to me in itself look am i interested in
these this history this culture am i
interested in the politics that are
unfolding now you know in and of itself
or am I only interested in it in
connection to other things as a means to
something else right and I said some
look I I used to study Japanese right
Japan is interesting
Japan is fascinating to me right but
only as it's connected other things and
I think this also does relate to the
nature of the economic opportunity you
know really like you know what's
interesting
Japan's role in world war two but that's
not Japan it's Japan's role in the
Russian Revolution did research on that
you guys might not know but that's not
Japan right that's Japan's connection to
to Russia you know it I would say
history you know what's interesting
what's interesting is how a whole bunch
of really important European texts
including like European philosophy were
first translated into Japanese and then
went from Japanese into Chinese and how
this totally transformed Chinese culture
you know how Japan reinterpreted
European culture and science and
technology and then the rest of Asia got
influenced that's interesting okay oh
that's interesting to me but Japan in
itself of itself for itself I'm not
really interested in Japan and look just
briefly to flip that around I think a
lot of Japanese people if they're
studying World War one they might be
interested in Canada's role in world war
one I think if they're studying World
War two they're interested in Canada's
role in world war two but they're not
really interested in Canada you know
that's that's I'm Canadian I'm not
insulted but it's just I think you
really have to be honest with yourself
about that and let me tell you something
China is interesting to me for China
like Chinese politics matter when they
have no connection to the outside world
when it's
were just talking about China Chinese
history you know going back 2,000 years
or more whatever you want to say with
that if I were really Chinese I'd say
5,000 years they always wanted a kid hey
we don't we don't really have 5,000
years history to work with but anyway
getting into fragments of pottery from
5,000 years ago right well a you know
however many thousand years and current
and ongoing China you know is
interesting and rewarding and important
economically politically and in every
other way sure you know just it just as
China so for me I think that's that's
something you have to kind of examine
yourself you have to consider your own
feelings you have to come to your own
conclusions so I think you never mention
that before that's trying to get here is
when I was in high school I felt that
the languages that were just put just
pause one second just buzz within think
about how how demented that is think
about our ridiculous that seems now in
2020 think about how ridiculous is say
to a kid the future economic opportunity
is in Mexico like and if you didn't mean
Mexico do you actually mean that the
future economic opportunity is in Spain
you know Spain went completely bankrupt
during our lifetime just a few years ago
they run a state of total total economic
crisis total economic collapse one of
the most extreme economic collapses in
history they had more than 25 percent
unemployment right just sorry I want to
I want you to continue but like what
could be more ridiculous than saying to
a kid you know the future is Mexico
where the future is Spanish even you
know again I'm not talking about a
hundred years of 200 years I'm living
for today I mean the next ten years I
mean the next 20 years I've got to make
it happen now now now because I don't
have 200 years to live
start going back great Japanese and
we're going to get you a private tutor
or something one way or another it would
be one hundred percent of your parents
yep you know there was no focus on Asian
languages and even I know we met
somebody in the airport in Beijing in in
Beijing Airport who said that Chinese
was not offered at his high school so he
had to you know get a private tutor of
course I think things are changing and
more and more you'd be able to learn an
Asian language in America it definitely
depends on where you live I don't know
if it's more normal group students who
grow up in
to study an Asian language in high
school but ya know I I just thought of
German culture French culture or Spanish
culture is not so porn but you know then
I had this experience of living in China
with you and getting accustomed to the
language familiar with with how to you
know how to survive in China and
learning more about the history it just
you know grew over time to be something
that I do have an interest in I do have
an interest in China like you say like
we're talking about with you know an
interest in Japan in terms of world war
two is well when I when I was a little
kid in Toronto sorry going judgement
when I was a little kid in Toronto you
you saw my neighborhood but that same
neighborhood when I was a kid it had
quite a few Jamaican shops I think there
were still a couple when we were there
but anyway neighborhoods changed that
way over as the decades come and go and
you know I said to my parents one day I
was a little kid I said do you realize
that Jamaica is a much smaller country
than China and my father laughed he was
like yes of course Jamaica is only a
small island and I said you know I said
basically I thought Jamaica and China
were countries of equal size and equal
importance like equal population like
you know because growing up in that
neighborhood again Chinese was very
prominent you saw the Chinese language I
mean you you can reckon if you don't
know any Chinese it just aesthetically
and graphically looks different you know
when you're looking at a Chinese
restaurant or a restaurant with a sign
in Chinese it's obvious right so I mean
that neighborhood there was a very big
Chinese presence but then there wasn't
there was an equally large Jamaican
presence so in terms of what you're
saying like how we grow up perceiving
one language as important or one country
as important you know again it is partly
political it is partly cultural so on
and so forth but Amin you know
now we're adults now we've got to make
some we've got to make some decisions um
within my lifetime so I'm 41 years old
when I was a kid
Singapore spoke a totally different
language from mainland China right Hong
Kong spoke a totally different language
from mainland China right the level of
language diversity and mutual and
comprehension within China was way
higher than it is now okay today and in
the next 20 years as never before all of
the Chinese people are united by a
common language especially a common
written language but even so the spoken
language being okay
that's not true of India that that could
change in future okay that could change
fifty years from now or something but
again today part of the power and depth
of what's going on and with the Chinese
language and Chinese political discourse
is that this is one language that
reaches over a billion people and get
when I was a kid that really wasn't true
I mean the government of Singapore had a
massive program to try to educate
Singaporeans to speak read and
understand standard Chinese they really
didn't forty years ago it's and the
story not worth telling right and then
within China province by province city
by city it's a different story in
different places but of course it's
partly the influence of television and
the internet and all these other things
Chinese has emerged within China as this
mega language and look I used to study
the Kree language there is no ancient
literature in Cree I literally owned or
got out of the library every single book
ever printed in the Korean language all
of them you know so it's a small
language spoken by smaller vul it
doesn't have 2000 years of literature it
doesn't doesn't write great but you
can't write it doesn't exist on paper it
has it
I mean Christian great you know
basically the colonisers great right of
interest in that but why what is the
future you've you've had the experience
of learning all these different
languages and you have the experience of
saying okay no I don't think creative
ways the future generally if you know
generally speaking it but if I speak to
somebody you know who lives in Europe
who wants to learn another language of
course you're sure you're not gonna
recommend you should learn a creative
way sure on a global scale sure you're
definitely gonna be more focus on
Chinese sure it's a no-brainer
what but I think that that's why this
that's why this conversation with
Mohammed kind of got me out of my
comfort zone is because normally I'm
giving advice to really scholarly people
for really scholarly reasons for the for
the right person learning creative way
is a great idea like it could be good
for you in specific as one specific
person I mean though I mean doctors do I
talk to very unusual people in
universities who are learning languages
for a reasonable reason for a very very
rare and unusual reasons it could be
part of a meaningful life and you could
do really meaningful humanitarian work
and you can be part of a really
meaningful research project in
anthropology or whatever it is okay I
mean I've asked this question all the
time on YouTube you know if not you then
who are you the right person to take
this on maybe you are as an individual
but it's really rare that I deal with
that kind of general question for an
ordinary person that Muhammad was
putting to me and again he's he's a guy
who already knows Arabic English and
German so for him to learn French would
be 1% of the work of learning Japanese
but here's another comparison here's
another comparison no here's another
comparison for him to learn Persian for
him to learn the languages of Iran would
be 1% well okay maybe 5% of the work
right because he already knows Arabic so
learning Persian he'd have it's a
different language I'm not going to
aggression to the differences and
similarities okay but still okay it will
be much easier for him to learn Persian
than to learn Japanese and Chinese right
but now think about it intellectually
emotionally personally politically and
economically in the next 20 years there
is no comparison between Chinese and
Persia between China and Iran and
there's no comparison between China and
France either there you go guys
for once from this channel reckless
optimism reckless encouragement right
now 2020 is the time to learn Chinese as
never before